README.md, before:

# Level Up

[My Notes](notes.md)

Level up is a web application designed to help users learn and master new skills. 

> [!NOTE]
> This is a template for your startup application. You must modify this `README.md` file for each phase of your development. You only need to fill in the section for each deliverable when that deliverable is submitted in Canvas. Without completing the section for a deliverable, the TA will not know what to look for when grading your submission. Feel free to add additional information to each deliverable description, but make sure you at least have the list of rubric items and a description of what you did for each item.

> [!NOTE]
> If you are not familiar with Markdown then you should review the [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax) before continuing.

## 🚀 Specification Deliverable

> [!NOTE]
> Fill in this sections as the submission artifact for this deliverable. You can refer to this [example](https://github.com/webprogramming260/startup-example/blob/main/README.md) for inspiration.

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] Proper use of Markdown
- [x] A concise and compelling elevator pitch
- [x] Description of key features
- [x] Description of how you will use each technology
- [x] One or more rough sketches of your application. Images must be embedded in this file using Markdown image references.

### Elevator pitch

Have you ever wanted to learn a new skill but just didn't know where to start? Have you ever worked so hard to learn something but just kept getting it wrong? Level up is the app for you! Level up allows you to chat with other users, share video links, ask for help, and offer suggestions to improve your skill set in a variety of categories!

### Design

![Design image](Images/webprogramming260startup-example%20An%20example%20start%20up%20project.png)

This is a sample drawing of what the application might look like. 

<!-- >```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor You
    actor Website
    You->>Website: Replace this with your design 
```-->

### Key features

- Secure login over HTTPS
- Display of different skills categories
- Ability to select from a range of categories 
- Opens a live chat with other users for selected category
- Ability to send links to videos in that category 
- Other users chats diplayed in real time 
- Chats are stored 

### Technologies

I am going to use the required technologies in the following ways.

- **HTML** - Used for structure and organization, 3 HTML pages. One for login, one for the category selection, and one for the chat. 
- **CSS** - Used for a physically appealing style that uses good colors and use of space. 
- **React** - Used for login, selection of categories, and opening/using different chats.
- **Service** - Used for login and sending and receiving chats. 
- **DB/Login** - Store user info and chat history.
- **WebSocket** - As users use the chat, chats show up for all other users as notification as well as in chat.  

## 🚀 AWS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] **Server deployed and accessible with custom domain name** - [My server link](https://startup.levelupskills.click).
I rented a server from AWS EC2, I purchased a domain name from AWS Route 53, I used caddy for the certificates and got everything set up and working. 

## 🚀 HTML deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **HTML pages** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Proper HTML element usage** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Links** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Text** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **3rd party API placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Images** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Login placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **DB data placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **WebSocket placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 CSS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Visually appealing colors and layout. No overflowing elements.** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Use of a CSS framework** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **All visual elements styled using CSS** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Responsive to window resizing using flexbox and/or grid display** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Use of a imported font** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Use of different types of selectors including element, class, ID, and pseudo selectors** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 React part 1: Routing deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Bundled using Vite** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Components** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Router** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 React part 2: Reactivity deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **All functionality implemented or mocked out** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Hooks** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 Service deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Node.js/Express HTTP service** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Static middleware for frontend** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Calls to third party endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Backend service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend calls service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Supports registration, login, logout, and restricted endpoint** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 DB deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Stores data in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Stores credentials in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 WebSocket deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Backend listens for WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend makes WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Data sent over WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **WebSocket data displayed** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application is fully functional** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

Commit message:

Revise HTML deliverable status in README
Updated the HTML deliverable section to reflect completed tasks with descriptions.

README.md, after:

# Level Up

[My Notes](notes.md)

Level up is a web application designed to help users learn and master new skills. 

> [!NOTE]
> This is a template for your startup application. You must modify this `README.md` file for each phase of your development. You only need to fill in the section for each deliverable when that deliverable is submitted in Canvas. Without completing the section for a deliverable, the TA will not know what to look for when grading your submission. Feel free to add additional information to each deliverable description, but make sure you at least have the list of rubric items and a description of what you did for each item.

> [!NOTE]
> If you are not familiar with Markdown then you should review the [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax) before continuing.

## 🚀 Specification Deliverable

> [!NOTE]
> Fill in this sections as the submission artifact for this deliverable. You can refer to this [example](https://github.com/webprogramming260/startup-example/blob/main/README.md) for inspiration.

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] Proper use of Markdown
- [x] A concise and compelling elevator pitch
- [x] Description of key features
- [x] Description of how you will use each technology
- [x] One or more rough sketches of your application. Images must be embedded in this file using Markdown image references.

### Elevator pitch

Have you ever wanted to learn a new skill but just didn't know where to start? Have you ever worked so hard to learn something but just kept getting it wrong? Level up is the app for you! Level up allows you to chat with other users, share video links, ask for help, and offer suggestions to improve your skill set in a variety of categories!

### Design

![Design image](Images/webprogramming260startup-example%20An%20example%20start%20up%20project.png)

This is a sample drawing of what the application might look like. 

<!-- >```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor You
    actor Website
    You->>Website: Replace this with your design 
```-->

### Key features

- Secure login over HTTPS
- Display of different skills categories
- Ability to select from a range of categories 
- Opens a live chat with other users for selected category
- Ability to send links to videos in that category 
- Other users chats diplayed in real time 
- Chats are stored 

### Technologies

I am going to use the required technologies in the following ways.

- **HTML** - Used for structure and organization, 3 HTML pages. One for login, one for the category selection, and one for the chat. 
- **CSS** - Used for a physically appealing style that uses good colors and use of space. 
- **React** - Used for login, selection of categories, and opening/using different chats.
- **Service** - Used for login and sending and receiving chats. 
- **DB/Login** - Store user info and chat history.
- **WebSocket** - As users use the chat, chats show up for all other users as notification as well as in chat.  

## 🚀 AWS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] **Server deployed and accessible with custom domain name** - [My server link](https://startup.levelupskills.click).
I rented a server from AWS EC2, I purchased a domain name from AWS Route 53, I used caddy for the certificates and got everything set up and working. 

## 🚀 HTML deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] **HTML pages** - I created five html pages for each part of my application. 
- [x] **Proper HTML element usage** - I showed proper use of different html tags.
- [x] **Links** - I have links between all of the pages in my application.
- [x] **Text** - I have textual context describing what the application is and each part of it.
- [x] **3rd party API placeholder** - I have a placeholder to call a 3rd party for images/quote.
- [x] **Images** - My html matches my application images. I also have a placeholder image in my about page. 
- [x] **Login placeholder** - I have a placeholder for users to login on the home page.
- [x] **DB data placeholder** - Data will be stored in the messages page where placeholders were displayed.
- [x] **WebSocket placeholder** - Chats placeholder for real time communication.

## 🚀 CSS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Visually appealing colors and layout. No overflowing elements.** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Use of a CSS framework** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **All visual elements styled using CSS** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Responsive to window resizing using flexbox and/or grid display** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Use of a imported font** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Use of different types of selectors including element, class, ID, and pseudo selectors** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 React part 1: Routing deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Bundled using Vite** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Components** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Router** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 React part 2: Reactivity deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **All functionality implemented or mocked out** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Hooks** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 Service deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Node.js/Express HTTP service** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Static middleware for frontend** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Calls to third party endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Backend service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend calls service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Supports registration, login, logout, and restricted endpoint** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 DB deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Stores data in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Stores credentials in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 WebSocket deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Backend listens for WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend makes WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Data sent over WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **WebSocket data displayed** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application is fully functional** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
